At the end of the previous lecture, we saw that we created some redundancy in our configuration because
we wanted to configure the Java version in each of our projects.
We had to copy the corresponding configuration code into each of our three built files.
Rather than doing that, we would like to set this version in a central place.
So why do we need to do this or why do we need to configure the Java version?
Can't the Java plugin just do that for us already?
Well, the Java plugin of Gradle is a general plugin for everyone who is developing Java projects and
folks probably want to use different Java versions.
So there's a certain default, a certain convention that comes with greater core, which is if you don't
test the Java version, we will just use the version you are running.
Gradle That's currently.
Whether this is a good default is debatable, but one default has to be chosen and greater show said
one.
And you probably need a different one for the Java version, but also for other things like which should
be the default test framework you are using.
Or in which encoding are the Java files written.
So this is not about really extending the build with new functionality or doing something very specific
in Java.
It's basically about changing these conventions.
So you want to define your own conventions for certain things that are put on top of what Gradle provides.
It would be great to say, instead of This is a Java library saying This is my Java library.
So a Java library with my own conventions on top.
Same for the application.
And that's the solution we actually going to use.
So as we know, technically, this idea up here, which is like a type for a project, is also a greater
plugin.
So we would need a way to plug in, which is called my Java Library.
Note that for now we comment out all the plugin applications of the plugin that don't exist yet.
One weakness of the tool integration between Gradle and IntelliJ is that if a configuration is incomplete
or has errors to sync between Gradle and IntelliJ might fail completely.
So we won't get any update in the thing.
If we try to zing something that has errors.
But since we want to rethink the project several times during what's coming next, we make sure that
our build scripts won't give any errors.
Let's remember from the lecture about the settings file that we can define Gradle plugins locally.
So if we go back to our settings file, we already talked about that.
We put an included build in the plugin management block and this has a separate variable somewhere that
defines plugins for us.
We'll do this now and say that there's a separate build inside our folder structure here in the Gradle
Slash Plugins folder.
And we'll create this folder.
Note that you could put it somewhere else if you desire.
So this folder is now a separate gradle build that our main build to build the built application can
look into to find additional Gradle plugins that are not available in the core of Gradle.
In our case, we wanted to find our my Java library and our my application plugins in them.
Because it's a separate build.
We can give it its own settings file.
And then build a project structure here, as we did for our main build.
We keep it simple in this example, and for many bills is also enough.
So we just include one sub project.
Which we call Java plugins because we do Java development, but you can choose this names whatever fits
best to your project and your naming schemes.
If you do this in a real project in the settings file, we should also define a repository where Gradle
can locate other libraries or other plugins we might want to depend on.
Typically it's enough to define the greater plugin repository here or you own more of it.
Note that often these are the same entries as you have in the plugin management block of the setting
file of your main build.
But because this is an independent build from the greater perspective, which does not know anything
about your main build because actually has to be processed first to make plugins available, you need
to define them here again and you need to put them in the dependency management block because here we
do not extend the gradle that is running this build, but we create gradle extensions inside this build.
So the product we built in this build, if you want, is greater plugin or a set of Gradle plugins.
So now as in the main build, we create a folder that's called Java plugins and put a built file into
it.
If we do this again with integrity, we see that this is now also recognized as a greater project.
So in the case of our Java plugin project here in our separate Gradle plugins build, we don't want
to build a Java library like in our production code, but we want to define a Gradle plugin now where
the plugins can be written in the Kotlin DSL or DSL or also in other languages like Java directly,
which I talked a bit about in the end of the whole course.
For now, we want to stick with the Courtland DSL.
So to tell Gradle that this is a project in which we write great plugins using the Kotlin DSL, there
is a specific plugin which is called Kotlin DSL.
Note that for some implementation reason and Gradle you need to apply the plugin like this without the
IDE notation.
This is only for the Scotland's plugin.
Hopefully a future creative version will also allow to write it with the ID notation for consistency.
So now we said that this project is a project to write better plugins with the content.
So if we zoom again.
Intelligence also knows about it.
And if we create a new folder now inside this project, intelligence already suggests the content source
folder for us.
This is knowledge it got from the greatest setup in such content DSL Gradle plugin projects.
Great plug ins are put into this folder, so we create it and in this folder we can now write greater
plug ins using the Kotlin DSL.
For that, you create a file that is named like the plugin ID.
So in our case, let's start with my Java library and then we add the extension gradle CTS as we do
for all other files written in the content DSL.
Note that once you create a new plugin file here, you may have to think again an intelligence for intelligence
to pick this up correctly.
And always, if you change the plugins, you apply.
You also need a reason so that the extensions for the greater DSL are discovered correctly.
And inside this file, you can write everything as you write it and build gradle files.
So we can say we want to apply the Java Library plugin because again, this is a plugin composition
as most plugins are.
So we use existing plugins and then we add new conventions or new functionality on top.
In this case, we just start by configuring the Java version here.
Let's add another plug in my application.
We applied the application plugin.
And now we would also have to set the Java version.
Of course, that would be again, a repetition.
So here we cannot profit from the way the plugin composition works.
And gradle.
We can add a third plugin, which I call my Java base.
In this plugin, we just apply the Java plugin, which is if you remember the plugin that adds most
of Java functionality and also at the Java extension for configuring the Java version.
The Application and livelihood plugin applies to Java plugin automatically, but we can also apply it
here because applying it multiple times won't make a difference.
So we apply it.
We get the Java extension and can configure the Java version.
And then we go to both our other plugins.
Let's go to my application first.
And we apply the my Java based plugin here so we can see that my application plugin is a composition
of gradle score application plugin and our own my Java based plugin.
And then we go into my Java library.
And make this a composition of creators Java Library plugin and our own base Java plugin.
When we have done all of this, we can think again an intelligent and now the new plug ins are recognized
in all the projects.
We don't need to configure the Java version anymore individually in the build files, but we've added
our own conventions through our own convention plugins.
So plugins that only reconfigure existing plugins are typically called convention plugins and they are
often local plugins that you write directly in one of the DSLRs as we did here, to have the most compact
and best IDE supported way of writing plugins.
So you see that writing a plugin doesn't have to be expensive or very complicated.
It's just a way to share a build configuration among several places.
So in a web structure built, you should always have an additional plugin build, like the Gradle plugins
build we created and put convention plugins into it for the shared build configuration.
The possibility to compose plugins existing ones and your own make this very flexible.
Speaking about existing plugins, you might also want to use plugins that are not delivered with Gradle,
but that are published by someone else in the community, often called Community Plugins, which are
typically located in the Gradle plugin repository.
In your convention plugins, you can use external plugins that come from other sources, like community
plugins from the Gradle plugin portal.
Just as you use core Gradle plugins, Gradle plugins are the plugins that are delivered with Gradle
like Java Library or application.
So for example, if you want to use spotless for code quality checks, we could apply the external spotlight
plugin which have the complete block dot spotless ID.
However, because this plugin is not located in the core, you need to add a dependency to the built
file of your Java plugins project to take Gradle to make the job that contains the plugin.
Available at build time, we'll learn more about declaring dependencies in general and Gradle and some
of the upcoming lectures.
So for now, don't worry about the details.
What you have to do is open the dependencies block here.
Use the implementation keyword to define a dependency and then you need the coordinates of the plugin
jar.
Sea coordinates contain a version which is the important difference.
If you look at external plugins compared to the ones that come with Gradle, the plugins that are packaged
in Gradle are always versioned with Gradle, so you can't change their version or use a different one
than the Gradle version you are using.
But external plugins have a separate versioning so they can be upgraded and new versions can be made
available even without upgrading.
Gradle To Discover which coordinates you need for a certain plugin, you can go to the Greater Plugin
Portal website.
If you look up the plaque and there.
You can find the coordinates in this block down here.
Unfortunately, the plugin website has not been updated yet to reflect the setup with convention plugins,
so that's why you don't get the exact thing which we are doing here there.
But you can still find the coordinates as I'm showing here.
In this lecture we learned how to compactly define our own Gradle plugins.
We use it to define convention plugins directly in the Cortland DSL.
By this, we define our own project types, so we can say that our Java libraries are not of type Java
library, but of type my Java library, which comes with its own conventions.
With this, you can structure all of your build configuration in multiple convention plugins.
You can use the plugin composition to combine things in multiple ways if you have different variations
of projects.
But for typical Java application, having Java libraries and then an application project which is either
directly in Java application as here or something else like a spring boot application is often enough.
With this, you are already able to define the components of your projects with creative DSL and tweak
them with your own conventions.
What we are missing, though, to build a complete application is the relationship that is dependencies
between the components.
In the end, they need to know about each other to build a complete application.
Let's look at this in the next lecture.